Modernization of application and architecture
Organizations nowadays is modernizing their application to meet higher client expectations for digital experience. API is one of the preferred techniques that they use to create modern workloads which combine both legacy and modern application components.
During the pandemic, organization had been forced to enable remote work with immature technology. As a result, they discover new ways in serving customer using technology and the demand of digital services in increase.
Digital transformation is occurred in three phrases which are task automation, digital expansion and AI-assisted business. Organization starts with task automation to achieve the digital transformation which increase the productivity by digitalizing the business process.
Second phase of digitalization is digital expansion. digital transformation initiatives now concentrate on business process automation, orchestration, and digital workflows. By combining the disparate application via API to creating a better seamless digital experience.
Third phase of digitalization is AI-assisted business where many organizations are working on it where they combine the AI into their business which help them to perform performance analysis, anomaly detection and protect digital assets from being attack by hackers.
Modernizations is important and necessary while the legacy system cannot adapt to the rapidly changing of business environment. Organizations are focusing on modernizing the IT service desk as it can increase employee productivity. Application that will affect the customer experience is also another focus of organization because it will determine the revenue of organizations.
There are basically four ways to modernize the application which are using API modern interface, using modern interface in modern components, refactoring to apply modern architecture and design pattern, performing lift and shift to the public cloud, effectively modernizing operations. Every organization should choose one or more method to modernize their application with consideration of costs, resource and complexity of maintaining legacy system.
Another important thing that organizations should consider is the usage of API. API had become vulnerable attacks target as API are mostly open source and other can access the application logic and sensitive data. Organizations should develop some API gateways which provide security layer and API security services so that they can protect their business logic and prevent vulnerable attack.

Rise of cloud approach and the edge because of complexity of application
As mentioned before, API are widely used to modernize the application and it also exposed to vulnerable attack. Artificial Intelligence and machine learning is needed to defend the cyberattacks but most of the organizations do not have enough resources to handle the Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, so that they turn to the cloud for assistance. As a result, we can see a massive growth on both Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS). 
While to process of modernize the application is ongoing, the complexity of the applications is also increasing. Due to the high risk of disruption, some of the traditional application which closely tied to core business logic are likely to stay in on-premises data centre. Which means that the organizations need to manage multiple architecture at one time. cloud service plays an important role in it because cloud service makes it easier to manage multiple architecture.
Pandemic is the main reason that stimulus the increasing in number of architecture and directly accelerate the movement to cloud and Saas. This pattern is already started before the pandemic but when there is a need to reallocate the workloads away from on-premises data centres to deal with suddenly remote workforce and digital-first economy, it further stimulates this situation. This kind of interest in cloud that spark by the pandemic will be continue in the further.
Another problem that we should concern is the application security technology that protects the application that we develop in cloud platform, it play an important role in enhancing customer experience and service level agreements (SLA). The main objective or organizations is to develop some security and delivery solution that are accessible across all contexts to ensure consistency and usability.
The edge has become a new requirement in light of our increasingly distributed reality. Even though the cloud data centre offers universal access, but it only more slightly distributed than on-premises data centres. By using the edge technology, organizations can deliver the application closer to the users. Edge computing is a practice of doing operation in the transitional areas between the linked endpoints and the main IT environment instead of doing operation in a single centralized data centre. The main concept of edge is to put applications as near to the sources and users of data as feasible for better performance and enable new service. The evolving of edge computing allows organizations to meet their need to support modular application component that are housed in container across various cloud and edge locations. By using the container at the edge. We can enhance scalability and user experience.
We can see that the edge computing is seen as the next step in the ever-growing field of distributed applications. Data analytics that provide insights needed for digital transformation project is one of the crucial edge use cases. The distribution of contemporary labour is another use for the edge, many organizations want to continue supporting at least a partially remote staff. This represent that the organizations need to focus on providing more secure and fast remote to all application.
The importance of insight provided by telemetry to improve application
As long as it is improbable that the speed of the digital revolution will slow, more application that rely on modular components and multiple platforms will move toward the direction of distributed which will provide user experiences that are quicker, more connected, more enjoyable, and more helpful. Telemetry is playing an important role to delivery those experiences in a secure and effective manner. In order to obtaining the insights and automation required to respond to threats and changing situations across platforms, safeguard consumers and assets, and improving the digital experiences, we need to analyse the real-time application data which can provided by telemetry.
However, some of the organizations fail to derive insights from data as they lack of associated skill sets, as well as agreement on the purposes, timing, and users of the data. Data collected is primarily used for troubleshooting and early alerts on performance issues among most of the organizations. According to the report, most of the respondents show that there are an apparent gap between the usage of data from current applications and from the components that modernise those apps when questioned about application monitoring in relation to their modernization initiatives (such as APIs). Only fewer of them watch for possible performance degradations using data and insights. Most of them are more focused on troubleshooting and only use such insights once a problem is defined.
A monitoring solution must do more than just provide notifications when performance circumstances deteriorate. They should be able to determine the root cause of application issue, performance degradations and possible attack. All of the insight provided by telemetry is having a same goal which is to accomplishing business results while fulfilling service-level agreement. Analytics must be enhanced to provide better crucial insights customised to the concerns of diverse goals and worries in order to drive digital transformation
AI-assisted technology can deliver the important analytics. AI operations can improve Performance analysis, anomaly detection, and event correlation by providing a platform which combine big data and machine learning. This will be the trend for next few years. Organizations that apply AI operation will obtain the capacity to act more quickly in the face of threats and changing circumstances, particularly when assisted by automation, in order to provide the excellent customer experiences that lead to higher conversion rates, greater customer retention, and more profitability.
